---
title: "OpenFHE: A Community-Driven Open-Source Project for FHE"
collection: talks
type: "Project Summit"
permalink: /talks/2024-09-05-talk-10
venue: "NUMFOCUS Project Summit 2024"
date: 2024-09-05
location: "Microsoft New England Research & Development (NERD) Center, Cambridge, MA, United States"
---

I had the pleasure of participating in the NUMFOCUS Project Summit 2024, which was held at the Microsoft New England Research & Development (NERD) Center, Cambridge, MA, United States, to share my insights on OpenFHE, a community-driven open-source project for Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE). My presentation introduced the OpenFHE project and its mission to streamline access to FHE technology. I showcased how our community engages through various channels, including our website, GitHub repository, Discourse forum, and participation in events, workshops, and tutorials. I also highlighted our efforts in co-organizing challenges and tutorials, fostering collaboration and driving innovation in the field of FHE. By enabling developers and researchers to contribute to and utilize OpenFHE, we aim to revolutionize the way sensitive data is handled and protected in a wide range of applications.

**Overview**  
NumFOCUS-sponsored project representatives met in Cambridge, MA, USA, to exchange insights on developing and supporting open-source projects and communities and to foster opportunities for cross-project collaboration. NumFOCUS staff, board members, and key partners were also in attendance to actively engage in discussions about project needs and to identify ways to provide support. The Summit program featured events that aim to provide deeper insights into the NumFOCUS current project services and initiatives.

[Project Summit url](https://www.nfsummit24.com/)