---
title: "FHEllo, world! FHE Community Workshop"
collection: talks
type: "Workshop"
permalink: /talks/2024-02-21-talk-9
venue: "enCRYPTON: Summer School on Cryptographic Solutions for Privacy Enhancing Technologies"
date: 2024-02-21
location: "Sabanci University, Istanbul, Turkey"
---

I had the pleasure of participating in the FHEllo World! workshop, a community-oriented online event focused on Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE). During the workshop, I presented a talk on the OpenFHE library, an open-source platform that empowers developers to employ FHE in their privacy-concerned applications. My talk explored the library's capabilities and highlighted its potential to revolutionize how we handle sensitive data in various applications.

**Overview**  
The FHEllo World! workshop brought together leading figures in the field of FHE for a community-oriented online event. Co-hosted by Polymorphic Capital, a venture capital firm focused on innovative technologies, and FairMath, a research company specializing in privacy-preserving solutions, the workshop explored the potential of FHE to revolutionize data security and privacy.

Speakers from CryptoLab, OpenFHE, IBM Research, and Mind Labs shared their expertise on various aspects of FHE, including open-source libraries, developer tools, and real-world applications like secure AI and private value transfers. The event fostered an engaging discussion around the challenges and opportunities in the FHE landscape, offering valuable insights for developers, researchers, and anyone interested in the future of secure data processing.

[url](https://lu.ma/79h2gt52)
[talks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=47jIw7daG7Q&ab_channel=FHEllo%2CWorld%21)
